# Liparidae phylogeny based on RADSeq Data
This repository contains my work from the Bioinformatics class FISH 546 Autumn 2018.  
  

## Project Description
This project will be working with RADSeq data from snailfishes. This data set was generated by Sam Ghods, Ingrid Spies, and Jay Orr in a collaboration between the University of Washington Fish Collection and the Alaska Fisheries Science Center.  
## My goal is to go from the raw RADSeq data to a phylogeny based on that data. 
### Objectives:
1. Determine number of usable loci for all species using both Stacks and ipyrad
2. Determine if more loci are usable for groups of more closely related species
3. Construct a phylogeny of all species based on SNPs extracted using both Stacks and ipyrad
4. Compare differences between SNP databases and phylogenies computed through different programs

### Project Timeline
**Completed**  
**Week 3**: Organize repository and gain access to raw data **DONE**  
**Week 4**: Have data downloaded, inspected using FastQC, and trimmed using Trim Galore. **DONE**     
**Week 5**: Install Stacks, very common pipeline for analyzing RADSeq data **DONE**  
*Note installing Stacks was extremely time intensive, see [InstallingStacks](https://github.com/fish546-2018/Jenny-Snailfish/blob/master/progress/InstallingStacks.md)*  

**Upcoming**  
**Week 6**: Demultiplex data, and trim barcodes and restriction site overhang as well as low quality ends. Determine script to count number of filtered reads and filter those too low or too high.  
**Week 7**: Determine number of loci to keep, compare across whole data set as well as within smaller groups. Export kept loci for each individual.  
**Week 8**: Construct a maximum likelihood phylogeny using Ape package in R  
**Week 9**: If time, derive SNP database using ipyrad and create phylogeny.  
**Week 10**: Compare all outputs. Was I able to recreate the same phylogeny as my coauthors using Stacks? Did the phylogeny based on SNPs from ipyrad differ from either Stacks phylogeny?

###Notes  
## Directories:  
- xFISH546
	- general class files including tutorials and class notes
	- blast-tutorial
		- files created from conducting the blast tutorial in GitBash
		- contains text file of command line coding
		- contains Jupyter notebook for running the tutorial
		- contains subdirectories: analyses for blast analysis, db for data downloads, and query for data queries.
	- notebooks
		- contains Jupyter notebooks about general troubleshooting done for making Bash and Windows get along.
	-  notes
		-  notes from each week of class
	-  screenshots
		-  screenshots taken for posting on class issues
	-  shell-novice
		-  files from the bash shell tutorial
		-  two text files with commands from the tutorial
		-  data -> file downloaded for use with the bash tutorial
-  Data
	-  contains raw data file and checksum for it
	-  *original data fastq too big for GitHub*
-  Analyses
	-  contains files created for analysis of data
	-  currently contains html and zip output of FastQC
-  Notebooks
	-  contains Jupyter notebooks documenting steps in the process
-  Progress  
	-  contains markdown files documenting weekly progress as well as documenting major points of slowdown and the reasons behind them
## Programs Used/ Plan to Use
- FastQC 
	- requires java
- Trim Galore
	- requires Cutadapt (which requires Microsoft C++)
- Stacks
- ipyrad
